Our world is chock full of amazing places.
Seriously, go out your front door, start walking
in any random direction, and chances are that
you’ll probably hit something interesting
within a few hours.
It could be a meadow, a groovy street you’ve
never visited before, a windswept stretch
of coastline, or even just an all you can
eat noodle bar offering free drinks to every
unshaven customer.
Hey, amazing is a relative concept.
The trouble is, most of us don’t do our
own exploring.
We comb guidebooks or the internet for places
that crop up in top 10 must-see lists, and
then we go exactly where everybody else does.
And while some of these places genuinely are
amazing (take a bow, Taj Mahal, Machu Picchu,
and the Grand Canyon), some actually suck
far more than you’d reasonably expect them
to.
In the mood for a flagrantly biased, wildly
unscientific look at the world’s most overrated
beauty spots?
You’ve come to the right place…
10.
Dresden, Germany, is Soullessly Ugly
Dresden’s nickname is “Florence on the
Elbe.”
That’s a mighty claim to fame, and it’s
absolutely not overstated… provided you’ve
just discovered this article in a crashed
time machine and are reading it prior to February
13, 1945.
That was the night Allied aircraft firebombed
the ancient city, turning this architectural
treasure into the urban equivalent of the
charred lumps you get at the bottom of a firepit.
So why, pray, do people still think of Dresden
as beautiful?
That’s probably because they’ve seen pictures
of it after its partial reconstruction was
finished, in 2005.
The key word there is “partial.”
Aside from a tiny fraction rebuilt in the
center, most of Dresden today is soulless
concrete housing blocks.
The guys in charge of reconstructing postwar
Dresden weren’t West Germans keen to rebuild
their shattered country.
They were East German Communists, keen to
show off the endless possibilities of Soviet
concrete.
When Kurt Vonnegut – who survived the firebombing
of Dresden as a prisoner of war – visited
the city after reconstruction, he claimed
it “looked a lot like Dayton, Ohio.”
No offense to residents of Dayton, but literally
nobody in the history of the world has looked
at Ohio’s sixth-largest city and said “this
reminds me of Florence.”
9.
Dublin, Ireland, is like Getting Mugged by
the Monopoly Man
The capital of Ireland, Dublin is stop number
one for millions of Americans proudly tracing
their family’s history and/or looking to
get falling-down drunk on Guinness.
It’s a city that’s beautiful, historic,
literary, and small enough to get a handle
on, unlike it’s British behemoth of a cousin
London.
Sounds great, until you happen to inquire
about the prices.
At that point, you’ll find yourself weeping
over your empty wallet as all your hard-earned
cash evaporates in a haze of whiskey fumes.
Dublin is an expensive city.
Yep, even if you’re used to NYC or London.
Even if you’re used to Singapore.
Dublin is the second most expensive city for
expats in the entire Eurozone, beaten out
only by Paris.
But Paris at least doesn’t pretend to be
anything but classy and haughtily unaffordable.
Dublin advertises itself as your friend, as
the jovial Irish guy you wanna share a drink
with.
It’s only afterwards that you realize he’s
snatched your wallet mid-swig, and probably
made off with your pants, too.
Even tourism experts have called the city
a “rip off.”
8.
Iceland is Drowning Under Tourists
The entire population of Iceland is a mere
334,252, about the size of Santa Ana, California.
The number of annual tourists to Iceland is
over 2 million, or about the same as the population
of Houston.
Imagine the entire citizenry of Houston upping
sticks and deciding to spend three months
in the summer swarming through the streets
of Santa Ana, taking selfies, clogging up
traffic lanes, and generally acting like Americans
on vacation (i.e. like jerkwads).
Everything would vanish under a sea of ten
gallon hats and Texan attitudes to gun safety.
Well, that’s basically the permanent condition
that Iceland lives in.
There’s no doubt that Iceland is a beautiful
country, with rugged, awe-inspiring vistas,
and stretches of remote road that can feel
like driving on another planet.
The only trouble is, those remote roads and
rugged vistas are now jam packed full of Americans,
Brits, Canadians and Germans clutching selfie
sticks and talking about how there are way
too many tourists in Iceland these days.
Oh, and they’re also probably drunk, and
acting in a way that’s guaranteed to annoy
the locals.
Thanks to drunk tourists, Iceland now has
a major problem with people pooping in public
areas.
Do you really wanna add to these gross statistics?
7.
Varanasi, India, is Where the Ganges Becomes
Toxic Sludge
Varanasi is the spiritual home of Hinduism,
a place where enlightenment fuses with mind-blowing
architecture to create something completely
unique.
The centerpiece of this is the mighty Ganges,
which flows through the city, washing away
sin with its powerful waters.
At least, that used to be the case.
Today, the Ganges is less a river than it
is a rolling wave of sludge so toxic it’ll
either give you superpowers or just outright
kill you.
Factories, sewage pipes, private bathrooms,
and tanneries upstream all dump their waste
into the Ganges as it makes its way across
India.
Elsewhere, the water is hived off for industrial
uses, meaning what is left is unable to keep
up a healthy flow.
The result is a river of sludge that gets
sludgier and sludgier as it snakes its way
towards Varanasi.
By the time it reaches the city, it can’t
even really be called a river anymore.
It’s more of a chemical swap that’s decided
to go walkabouts.
This is a doubly major issue, as one of the
main reasons to visit Varanasi is to bathe
in the river (seriously, don’t actually
do this).There are clean up operations underway,
but they’re behind schedule, over-budget
and, frankly, not very effective.
6.
Stonehenge, UK, is Right by a Busy Road
Imagine being at Stonehenge during the solstice.
The eerie silence just before the sun rises
between the perfectly aligned rocks would
be magical.
Or at least it would be, if that eerie silence
wasn’t being broken by the sound of car
horns, roaring engines, and gridlocked drivers
yelling at one another.
Yep, despite being an ancient wonder supposedly
in the middle of nowhere, Stonehenge is actually
close to a road.
And what a road.
Known as the A303, it is the key link between
London and the counties of Devon and Cornwall.
That’s the same Devon and Cornwall that
Londoners drive to en masse every single weekend
and public holiday.
Believe it or not, this is an improvement.
Prior to 2013, an equally busy road went within
yards of Stonehenge itself, meaning you could
contemplate the mysteries of the universe
while spoiled kids yelled out back windows
and threw things at you.
Still, even the newly diverted road leaves
the monument smothered with an unceasing din
of traffic.
The good news is the British government has
plans to build a tunnel.
The bad news is archeologists say it will
undermine Stonehenge’s foundations.
5.
Dracula’s castle, Romania, is Surrounded
by a Forest of Tacky Stalls
Maybe we’re asking a bit much to expect
somewhere known as Dracula’s Castle to be
free of tacky roadside stalls.
But there’s ordinary roadside tat, and then
there’s the sweeping miles of stuff that
plagues Bran Castle in Romania, the source
of Bram Stoker’s inspiration for his novel.
You’ve probably seen pictures of the castle,
looking suitably European and forbidding,
surrounded by a sea of forest.
What those pictures don’t show is the far-bigger
forest of tackiness that surrounds the real
one.
Approaching Bran Castle is like approaching
Disneyland… if Disneyland were run on a
budget of six dollars and staffed entirely
by people who’d ditched their Goofy costumes
for vampire trinkets.
There are stalls selling vampire teeth.
Stores selling vampire masks.
Stores selling stuff you couldn’t possibly
need in a billion years, but still has vampires
on it.
There is even a theme park replica of the
castle, within spitting distance of the actual
castle.
The worst part?
Romania is full of beautiful castles no-one
has ever heard of, all of which you can explore
without some dude hassling you to buy fake
rubber bats.
4.
The Maldives is like Putting Yourself in a
Beautiful Prison
Those screensavers of pristine white beaches
lapped by crystal clear waters you’re always
seeing on your mom’s old laptop?
There’s a good chance they’re pictures
of the Maldives, a tiny collection of islands
in the Indian Ocean that banded together to
form one – very spread out – state.
To be sure, the islands are as beautiful as
those pictures suggest.
But entering an island paradise isn’t quite
as simple as hopping the first flight to its
capital, Male.
Unless you’re very wealthy, or have done
your research, your vacation in the Maldives
could wind up being very expensive or very
claustrophobic.
There are over 1,200 islands in the Maldives.
The largest, Gan, is a mere 2.26 square kilometers.
That means every resort is its own private
island, and getting between them ain’t cheap.
Unless you’re cool being trapped around
the same people day in, day out, with nothing
but the resort to see, you’ll have to shell
out around $800 for a 15 minute seaplane flight
to another island.
That’s just one way.
It’ll cost the same to get back, and “getting
back” could well mean to an island resort
that has nothing for you to do but drink.
Great for unadventurous drunks.
Hell for literally anybody else.
3.
Bagan, Myanmar, is Plagued by Ham-fisted Temple
Restorations
A collection of thousands of ancient temples
spread out across an endless, rolling plain,
Bagan in Myanmar looks like the sort of place
you would be willing to kill to visit.
For sure, it’s one of the most Instagrammable
spots in Asia.
But those awesome photos taken from afar and
showing the distant temples wreathed with
mist miss out on one very important piece
of context.
Historically, plenty of those same temples
weren’t exactly cared for.
They look like they do today not because that’s
how they’re meant to look, but because the
previous military government hamfistedly put
them back together again without having a
clue what they were doing.
Bagan’s restoration work is bad.
Not just “not great”, but actively bad.
The temples were put back together using cruddy,
low-grade cement, and with regular bricks
instead of faithful materials.
While this isn’t always clear to the untrained
eye, you can sometimes stumble across evidence
of this shoddy workmanship as you walk around.
The end result is a kind of Disney-fied version
of Burmese history that’s about as authentic
as the It’s a Small World ride.
There’s a reason UNESCO listed Pyu in Myanmar
but refused to touch Bagan with a bargepole.
2.
Germany’s Romantic Road was Invented by
Travel Agents
The Romantic Road.
Even the name is evocative, conjuring images
of stately medieval towns, ancient castles,
and more beautiful nature than you can shake
a stick at.
Running through Germany from the town of Wurzburg
to Fussen in the Alps, the road sounds like
the very definition of old fashioned European
romanticism.
There’s just one problem with that.
It ain’t old.
It’s not even something the Victorians came
up with.
It was invented by travel agents in the 1950s,
and you better believe it’s as jam-packed
with tourists as that implies.
West Germany in the 1950s was just emerging
from the shadow of WWII, and needed all the
money and non-Nazi publicity it could get.
So a bunch of travel agents designed a theme
route that would show off their country at
its best, and slapped an evocative name on
it.
While a lot of the stops on the route are
indeed nice to look at, some are seriously
overrated.
Wurzburg, for example, is like someone took
the best bits of Prague and made them smaller
but still kept the same number of tourists.
Rothenburg Od Der Tauber is like someone tried
to see how many tour groups they could cram
into one space before everyone started killing
one another in a Mad Max-style orgy of violence.
Our advice?
Leave the beaten track and try Nuremberg instead.
1.
Disney World Florida is as Magical as Cholera
As a kid, you probably dreamed of going there.
Disney World in Orlando, Florida, is the biggest
of the Disney amusement parks by far, and
the one which advertises itself most aggressively.
All of which simply proves the old adage that
bigger is not necessarily better.
Disney World has the worst rides, the emptiest
swathes, and the least charm of all the parks
in the Disney franchise.
This might not be such a pain on its own,
but it’s also the most expensive.
In a strange inversion of the logic that more
money=better quality, Disney World charges
more for an experience that’s significantly
less enjoyable than that in its California,
Paris, Shanghai or Tokyo sister parks.
One major issue is that it’s just so spread
out, getting from one place to another becomes
a dispiriting experience.
There’s also the issue of how worthwhile
each place is or isn’t.
While the Anaheim, California park doesn’t
waste a square meter of space, the Florida
version puts aside a huge area for the Epcot
Center.
No-one in their right mind wants to voluntarily
visit the Epcot Center.
But, hey, if you’re in the area anyway,
you might as well head down the road and check
out the superior Universal Studios.
You’re welcome.